In the last video we looked at how to build
our custom polygons. Now we're taking it a
step further, a dimension further. We're bringing
these custom polygon concepts to the 3D space.
In 3D it gets slightly more complicated. To
build completely custom shapes beyond the
primitives like sphere and cube, that we already
used. The fundamental concept of 3D bodies
in these kind of software solutions is that
those bodies are made up of individual triangles.
And almost every 3D body that you will find
somewhere, no matter if it has curves or anything,
when it comes down to the rendering process and
to building the actual geometry of your object,
this object will have tons of little triangles
that make up the whole structure of your 3D body.
The idea is that we have individual points,
these are also called vertexes or vertices
and these points are then connected through edges
and these three edges they are building
one face. So we have an array of points
and then we have a list of faces and those
faces are defined by the indices of our points.
And we can reuse our points. In this example
here we have this middle point. the center point,
and the center point is used in all the individual
triangles over and over again. But we do not need
to redefine this point, but instead we just
use the index of the point in our point list.
And we can reuse this, but i will
show an example in just a second.
There's one little bit of information that
is important. In the polygons we already
learned that the order in which we provide our
points is very important. In polygons providing
points in clockwise order created shapes and
counterclockwise created holes inside of shapes.
In 3D bodies, providing our vertices in
clockwise order means that this is the
way we want to look at our face. So this is
how it is facing us. So in 3D bodies you have
an outer shell that we want to create, but if
you would look from the inside of your object
out of your object you couldn't see it. You can
only see the individual faces from the outside.
When you look from the outside on your face, you
need to provide the points in clockwise order.
Let's start with a very simple example here.
We have the polyhedron function. This helps
us create our own custom 3D bodies. We now
create a list of points, to create a square.
So we need the four corners of our square,
so we start in the upper left corner.
And we need a third dimension now
that we are in 3D space. We will now
make a plane and so we don't need to worry
about the third dimension at the moment.
And then we need all the other corners of our
squares. So we go to the upper right corner
and the lower right and the lower left and now
we need to define our faces, our triangles.
We will start in the upper left corner, and
remember: arrays start with the index of zero,
so the first point is zero. And then now we go
clockwise to the second point and the third point.
And if i save this now, switch to the
preview, we can now see our rectangle here. So
we started in the upper left corner moved to the
upper right and then we moved to the bottom. But
if i rotate this now and look from the bottom
onto our plane, it disappears. We can only see it
from the side where the points are ordered in
clockwise direction. Okay so let's add the second
triangle of our square. Here we will start at the
second point, third point, go to the fourth and
then to the first again. And if i save this, we
now get our complete square. And again invisible
from the bottom. Just to demonstrate this again,
i will simply switch the order of points here.
And now we have one visible from here
and one visible from the other side.
So for simple shapes this sounds quite easy
to do, but obviously the more complex your
3D bodies become, the more complex it becomes
to set up the points, to set up the vertices,
to build loops to set up these vertices.
So i've provided you with a couple of
examples below this video of how i approach
this task of creating custom 3D bodies.
And also for me, and i've been doing this
for years, I still struggle creating these
3D bodies from code. So what I usually do is,
I start with a sketch on paper and try to set
up how I want to build my triangles, my vertices
and then slowly start building up the 3D body and
experiment with different ways of for-loops and
see how i can get to my final idea of a 3D body